README.md, before:

# Airbnb Prototype

A full-stack Airbnb clone with AI-powered travel planning.

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React + TailwindCSS
- **Backend**: Node.js + Express + MySQL
- **AI Agent**: Python FastAPI + Langchain + Ollama (Local AI)

## Tech Design

![Architecture Diagram](design/Tech_design.png)

The system follows a three-tier architecture:
- **Frontend & Browser**: React-based user interface
- **Backend**: Node.js server and Python FastAPI for AI capabilities
- **Smart Agents**: Llama (local AI) and Tavily integration for intelligent features
- **Database**: MySQL for data persistence

## Workflow

![Workflow Diagram](design/airbnb-workflowdrawio.png)

### Traveler Workflow
1. **Search & Browse**: Search properties by location, dates, and guests
2. **View Details**: View property information and photos
3. **Book Property**: Submit booking request (status: PENDING)
4. **Await Confirmation**: Owner reviews and accepts/declines the request
5. **Complete Stay**: Once accepted, complete the stay
6. **Post-Stay**: Leave a review and get AI travel planning recommendations

### Owner Workflow
1. **Add Property**: Create new property listing
2. **Upload Photos**: Add property images
3. **Publish**: Make property available for bookings
4. **Receive Requests**: Get notified of booking requests
5. **Review & Decide**: Accept or decline booking requests
6. **Process Payment**: Complete payment for accepted bookings

## Project Structure

```
airbnb/
├── frontend/          # React application
├── backend/           # Node.js/Express API
├── ai-agent/          # Python FastAPI AI service
└── database/          # MySQL schema files
```

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18+)
- Python (v3.9+)
- MySQL (v8+)

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Database Setup

```bash
# Login to MySQL
mysql -u root -p

# Create database
CREATE DATABASE airbnb_db;

# Import schema
mysql -u root -p airbnb_db < database/schema.sql
```

### 2. Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend
npm install
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your MySQL credentials
npm run dev
```

Backend will run on `http://localhost:5000`

### 3. Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
cp .env.example .env
npm start
```

Frontend will run on `http://localhost:3000`

### 4. AI Agent Setup (Ollama - Local/Offline)

```bash
# Install Ollama first
# macOS: brew install ollama
# Linux: curl -fsSL https://ollama.com/install.sh | sh
# Windows: Download from https://ollama.com/download

# Download AI model
ollama pull llama2

# Start Ollama (keep running in separate terminal)
ollama serve

# Setup AI agent (in new terminal)
cd ai-agent
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
cp env.example .env
# Edit .env with your MySQL credentials (no API keys needed!)
uvicorn app.main:app --reload --port 8000
```

AI Agent will run on `http://localhost:8000`

**Note:** Uses Ollama (local, free, offline AI) - No API keys required!

## API Documentation

- Backend Swagger: `http://localhost:5000/api-docs`
- AI Agent Swagger: `http://localhost:8000/docs`

## Default Users

After running the seed script, you can login with:
- **Traveler**: traveler@test.com / password123
- **Owner**: owner@test.com / password123

## Features

### Traveler
- Signup/Login with session authentication
- Profile management with photo upload
- Search properties by location, dates, guests
- Book properties (Pending → Accepted/Cancelled flow)
- Manage favorites
- View booking history
- AI Travel Planner assistant

### Owner
- Signup/Login
- Profile management
- Post/edit properties
- Manage bookings (Accept/Cancel requests)
- View booking history

### AI Agent
- Day-by-day travel itinerary
- Activity recommendations
- Restaurant suggestions (dietary filters)
- Packing checklist (weather-aware)
- Natural language understanding

## Development

- Backend API runs on port 5000
- Frontend runs on port 3000
- AI Agent runs on port 8000

## Contributors

- Vidushi Verma
- Shristi Kumar

Developed for Lab 1 Assignment

Commit message:

Reorganize project: Move all guide files and scripts to run-guide folder
- Created run-guide/ folder for better organization
- Moved all documentation files (SETUP_GUIDE.md, QUICK_START.md, etc.)
- Moved all setup and start scripts (setup.sh, start-all.sh, etc.)
- Added run-guide/README.md as navigation index
- Updated main README.md to reference run-guide folder
- Improved project structure and user experience

README.md, after:

# Airbnb Prototype

A full-stack Airbnb clone with AI-powered travel planning.

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React + TailwindCSS
- **Backend**: Node.js + Express + MySQL
- **AI Agent**: Python FastAPI + Langchain + Ollama (Local AI)

## Tech Design

![Architecture Diagram](design/Tech_design.png)

The system follows a three-tier architecture:
- **Frontend & Browser**: React-based user interface
- **Backend**: Node.js server and Python FastAPI for AI capabilities
- **Smart Agents**: Llama (local AI) and Tavily integration for intelligent features
- **Database**: MySQL for data persistence

## Workflow

![Workflow Diagram](design/airbnb-workflowdrawio.png)

### Traveler Workflow
1. **Search & Browse**: Search properties by location, dates, and guests
2. **View Details**: View property information and photos
3. **Book Property**: Submit booking request (status: PENDING)
4. **Await Confirmation**: Owner reviews and accepts/declines the request
5. **Complete Stay**: Once accepted, complete the stay
6. **Post-Stay**: Leave a review and get AI travel planning recommendations

### Owner Workflow
1. **Add Property**: Create new property listing
2. **Upload Photos**: Add property images
3. **Publish**: Make property available for bookings
4. **Receive Requests**: Get notified of booking requests
5. **Review & Decide**: Accept or decline booking requests
6. **Process Payment**: Complete payment for accepted bookings

## Project Structure

```
airbnb/
├── frontend/          # React application
├── backend/           # Node.js/Express API
├── ai-agent/          # Python FastAPI AI service
└── database/          # MySQL schema files
```

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18+)
- Python (v3.9+)
- MySQL (v8+)

## 🚀 Quick Start

**New to the project?** Check out the **[run-guide](./run-guide/)** folder for all setup and running instructions!

### One-Command Start
```bash
cd run-guide
./start-all.sh
```

### Manual Setup
See **[run-guide/START_HERE.md](./run-guide/START_HERE.md)** for detailed instructions.

## 📚 Documentation

All setup guides, documentation, and scripts are organized in the **[run-guide](./run-guide/)** folder:
- Setup instructions
- Running guides  
- AI configuration
- Project structure details

## Detailed Setup Instructions

### 1. Database Setup

```bash
# Login to MySQL
mysql -u root -p

# Create database
CREATE DATABASE airbnb_db;

# Import schema
mysql -u root -p airbnb_db < database/schema.sql
```

### 2. Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend
npm install
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your MySQL credentials
npm run dev
```

Backend will run on `http://localhost:5000`

### 3. Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
cp .env.example .env
npm start
```

Frontend will run on `http://localhost:3000`

### 4. AI Agent Setup (Ollama - Local/Offline)

```bash
# Install Ollama first
# macOS: brew install ollama
# Linux: curl -fsSL https://ollama.com/install.sh | sh
# Windows: Download from https://ollama.com/download

# Download AI model
ollama pull llama2

# Start Ollama (keep running in separate terminal)
ollama serve

# Setup AI agent (in new terminal)
cd ai-agent
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
cp env.example .env
# Edit .env with your MySQL credentials (no API keys needed!)
uvicorn app.main:app --reload --port 8000
```

AI Agent will run on `http://localhost:8000`

**Note:** Uses Ollama (local, free, offline AI) - No API keys required!

## API Documentation

- Backend Swagger: `http://localhost:5000/api-docs`
- AI Agent Swagger: `http://localhost:8000/docs`

## Default Users

After running the seed script, you can login with:
- **Traveler**: traveler@test.com / password123
- **Owner**: owner@test.com / password123

## Features

### Traveler
- Signup/Login with session authentication
- Profile management with photo upload
- Search properties by location, dates, guests
- Book properties (Pending → Accepted/Cancelled flow)
- Manage favorites
- View booking history
- AI Travel Planner assistant

### Owner
- Signup/Login
- Profile management
- Post/edit properties
- Manage bookings (Accept/Cancel requests)
- View booking history

### AI Agent
- Day-by-day travel itinerary
- Activity recommendations
- Restaurant suggestions (dietary filters)
- Packing checklist (weather-aware)
- Natural language understanding

## Development

- Backend API runs on port 5000
- Frontend runs on port 3000
- AI Agent runs on port 8000

## Contributors

- Vidushi Verma
- Shristi Kumar

Developed for Lab 1 Assignment
